% Panels

## layout/Panels

[layout/Panels]($api/#/kind/layout/Panels/Panels) is designed to satisfy a
variety of common use cases for application layout.  Using `layout/Panels`,
controls may be arranged as (among other things) a carousel, a set of collapsing
panels, a card stack that fades between panels, or a grid.

## Behavior

Any Enyo control may be placed inside a `layout/Panels`, but by convention we
refer to each of these controls as a "panel".  From the set of panels in a
`layout/Panels`, one is considered to be active.  The active panel is set by
index using the `setIndex()` method.  The actual layout of the panels typically
changes each time the active panel is set, such that the new active panel has
the most prominent position.  For example, if the layout arranges the panels as
a stack of cards, setting the active panel will show the active panel and hide
the inactive ones.

`layout/Panels` is designed to support animating and dragging between active
states.  When the active panel changes, the `onTransitionStart` and
`onTransitionFinish` events are fired.  Animation between active states can be
turned off by setting the `animate` property to `false`.  In addition, panels
are draggable by default; to defeat this behavior, set the `draggable` property
to `false`.

Here's an example of a card stack:

```javascript
    var
        kind = require('enyo/kind'),
        Panels = require('layout/Panels');

    module.exports = kind({
        name: 'App',
        kind: Panels,
        fit: true,
        components: [
            {name: 'MyStartPanel'},
            {name: 'MyMiddlePanel'},
            {name: 'MyLastPanel'}
        ]
    });
```

This example will stretch the panels inside the application to fit the size of
the application.  If, instead, the panels should be arranged left-to-right as a
carousel, set the `layoutKind` property of the `App` kind to `CarouselArranger`.
In this case, the size of the panels should be set up in the application (e.g.,
`style: 'width: 300px;'`).

## Layout

The layout behavior of a `layout/Panels` is controlled by the kind specified as
the `arrangerKind`.  A number of [Arranger](arrangers.html) kinds have been
designed to work specifically with panels, and new ones may be created as
desired.

To simplify the process of creating arranger kinds for use with `layout/Panels`,
an interpolation strategy is used to render states between active settings.
This means that only the layout of each active state needs to be specified by
the `arrangerKind`.  See the API documentation for more information.

Certain arrangers may be used in conjunction with a Panels instance to create a
"wrap-around" effect, in which moving forward past the last panel returns you to
the first panel, and moving backward past the first panel brings you to the last
panel.  To achieve this effect, specify a
[LeftRightArranger]($api/#/kind/layout/LeftRightArranger/LeftRightArranger),
[TopBottomArranger]($api/#/kind/layout/TopBottomArranger/TopBottomArranger),
[SpiralArranger]($api/#/kind/layout/SpiralArranger/SpiralArranger), or
[GridArranger]($api/#/kind/layout/GridArranger/GridArranger) as the
`arrangerKind` for a `layout/Panels` whose `wrap` property has been set to
`true`.

## Responsive Design

`layout/Panels` is designed to be used in conjunction with CSS media queries to
support layouts that adapt to different screen sizes.  How the layout should
change is left up to the application developer, but the layout should function
correctly as the size of the panels inside it changes.  Here is an example use
case: An application uses a `Panels` kind to arrange panels in a left-to-right
collapsing layout.  When the application is tablet- or desktop-sized, the
expanded layout displays each panel side-by-side with the others.  When the
application is phone-sized, each panel takes up the full screen width and
collapses to hide the other panels.

The code for this use case is almost the same as in the previous example, but
we've set the `arrangerKind` and applied a CSS class:

```javascript
    var
        kind = require('enyo/kind'),
        Panels = require('layout/Panels'),
        CollapsingArranger = require('layout/CollapsingArranger');

    module.exports = kind({
        name: 'App',
        kind: Panels,
        fit: true,
        classes: 'app-panels',
        arrangerKind: CollapsingArranger,
        components: [
            {name: 'MyStartPanel'},
            {name: 'MyMiddlePanel'},
            {name: 'MyLastPanel'}
        ]
    });
```

Note that in a [CollapsingArranger]($api/#/kind/layout/CollapsingArranger/CollapsingArranger),
the last panel will always take up the available space.

The key to achieving the sizing behavior we want is to set up the CSS classes
correctly.  Here's one way to do it:

```css
    /* set the width and some basic styling for each panel */
    .app-panels > * {
        width: 320px;
        background-color: #EAEAEA;
        box-shadow: -4px -4px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.3);
    }

    /* on small devices, make each panel fit to the app width */
    @media all and (max-width: 800px) {
        .app-panels > * {
            min-width: 100%;
            max-width: 100%;
        }
    }
```

Now, technically, the second block of CSS isn't needed to achieve this specific
sizing effect.  That's because the `narrowFit` property of `layout/Panels`, when
`true` (the default), causes each panel to be sized to fit the width of the
application when the screen size is sufficiently narrow--and the default cutoff
for "narrowness" is 800px.  But this CSS still provides a useful guide to follow
if you want to define your own custom cutoff width.

Let's say we want to modify our example kind to have a cutoff width of 600px
instead of 800px.  In the kind definition, we set the `narrowFit` property to
false (to turn off the default behavior) and apply a custom CSS class
(`'app-panels'`) in which we'll define the new behavior.

We'll also want to override the static method `Panels.isScreenNarrow()`,
replacing `800` with `600`.  This method isn't used by the framework itself, but
exists to give application code an easy way to know if it's being run in a
small-screen environment.  (For an interesting example of how this can be used
in the context of navigation between panels, see the [Flickr sample
app](http://enyojs.com/samples/panels/app-flickr.html) on enyojs.com.)

This gives us the following kind definition:

```javascript
    var
        kind = require('enyo/kind'),
        dom = require('enyo/dom'),
        Panels = require('layout/Panels'),
        CollapsingArranger = require('layout/CollapsingArranger');

    module.exports = kind({
        name: 'App',
        kind: Panels,
        fit: true,
        narrowFit: false,
        classes: 'app-panels',
        arrangerKind: CollapsingArranger,
        components: [
            {name: 'MyStartPanel', content: 'start'},
            {name: 'MyMiddlePanel', content: 'middle'},
            {name: 'MyLastPanel', content: 'last'}
        ],
        statics: {
            isScreenNarrow: function() {
                return dom.getWindowWidth() <= 600;
            }
        }
    });
```

Finally, we add the appropriate media query to the accompanying CSS:

```css
    .app-panels > * {
        width: 320px;
        background-color: #EAEAEA;
        box-shadow: -4px -4px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.3);
    }

    @media all and (max-width: 600px) {
        .app-panels > * {
            min-width: 100%;
            max-width: 100%;
        }
    }
```

![_Panels control with window width under 600px_](../../assets/enyo-panels-1.png)  
Panels control with window width under 600px  

![_Panels control with window width over 600px_](../../assets/enyo-panels-2.png)  
Panels control with window width over 600px

## moonstone/Panels and moonstone/Panel

[moonstone/Panels]($api/#/kind/moonstone/Panels/Panels) extends `layout/Panels`,
adding Moonstone visual styling and support for 5-way focus (Spotlight).  The
Moonstone Panels control is suitable for use in a broad range of applications.

By default, new controls created inside a `moonstone/Panels` container are
instances of [moonstone/Panel]($api/#/kind/moonstone/Panel/Panel).  A
`moonstone/Panels` will typically contain several `moonstone/Panel` objects.
The built-in features of `moonstone/Panel` include a header and a
[FittableRows]($api/#/kind/layout/FittableRows/FittableRows) layout for the main
body content.
