% Scrollers

In a Scroller, the scroll indicator (shown below, at right) only appears while
content is being scrolled.

![_Scroller With Scroll Indicator_](../../assets/scroll-indicator.png)

## enyo/Scroller

[enyo/Scroller]($api/#/kind/enyo/Scroller/Scroller) provides a viewport in which
the user may scroll content using touch or mouse actions.  (The scrolling of
content exceeding the size of a viewport is not automatic; for content to
scroll, it must be placed inside a Scroller control.)  `enyo/Scroller` is
suitable for use in both desktop and mobile applications.

The `strategyKind` property determines the type of scrolling used by a given
scroller.  The default value is `'ScrollStrategy'`, which lets the framework
choose an appropriate strategy based on the runtime platform.

While desktop browsers have their own native scrolling mechanisms, some mobile
environments do not have a default scrolling solution for DOM elements.  In such
cases, `enyo/Scroller` implements a scrolling solution based on touch events.
You may opt into touch-based scrolling either globally (by setting
`enyo/Scroller.touchScrolling` to `true`) or on a per-instance basis (by
specifying a `strategyKind` of `'TouchScrollStrategy'`).  Note that if you opt
in, the scroller will use the touch-based mechanism, even if the app is running
in a desktop browser (in which case, the browser will not display its native
scrollbars, and the user will scroll by clicking and dragging in the content
area).

A third strategy kind, `'TranslateScrollStrategy'`, implements touch scrolling
using translations.  It is currently recommended only for Android 3 and 4.

The `vertical` and `horizontal` properties control scrolling behavior along their
respective axes.  Both properties have the same four possible values:

* `'scroll'` always shows a scrollbar.
* `'auto'` scrolls only if needed (i.e., if content size exceeds viewport size).
* `'hidden'` never scrolls.
* `'default'` (the default value) is the same as `'auto'`.

To programmatically scroll to a specific position with animation, call
`scrollTo(x, y`; to snap to a position without animation, call
`setScrollLeft(x)` and `setScrollTop(y)`.

When touch-based scrolling is in effect, the user may drag beyond a valid scroll
position.  When this occurs, the scroller moves with increased tension before
returning to a valid position with an accompanying animation.  To avoid this
behavior, set the `touchOverscroll` property to `false`.

## moonstone/Scroller

[moonstone/Scroller]($api/#/kind/moonstone/Scroller/Scroller) inherits from
`enyo/Scroller`, adding support for 5-way focus (Spotlight) and pagination
buttons.  It currently requires a `strategyKind` of `TouchScrollStrategy`.

`moonstone/Scroller` responds to the `onSpotlightFocused` event by scrolling the
event originator into view. This ensures that 5-way (Spotlight) focused controls
are always in view.

Additionally, `moonstone/Scroller` will respond to the `onRequestScrollIntoView`
event, which may be fired explicitly/programmatically by controls that should be
scrolled into view.
